Social Visualization 

Community Awareness and Visualization 


1. Online Communities

	1. Knowledge worker's desktop

	2. Collaborative project spaces 

	3. Website Communities

	4. Discussion Groups

	5. Synchronous interaction tools

	6. e-learning spaces

	7. Expertise exchanges

	8. Knowledge bases 

2. What is Visualization

	1. Information Visualization 

		refers to the techniques used to communicate data or information by encoding it as visual object 

	2. Knowledge Visualization

	3. Social Visualization 

		A visual representation of infromation from which the presence, activeities, and other characteristics o members of a social collective may be inferred, and, by extension, can provide the basis for making inferences about the activites and characteristics of the group as a whole

3. Why Visualization

	1. Capture Social Intelligence 

		1. Organize vast amount of information 

		2. Pattern discovery --> Knowledge 

	2. Promote Participation 

		1. Provide incentives; reputation, competition 

	3. Support Social Interaction

		1. Graph interface 

		2. Creative Interaction by Users

4. Social Intelligence
	
	Individually: 

		1. Ability to get along well with others, and to cooperate with them

		2. Involves a certain amount of self-insight and a consciousness of one's own perception and reaction pattern 

		3. How poeple operate to determine an individual's reputation, social status, roles...

	Grouply:

		1. Groups of people manage to produce coherent behaviour directed towards individual or collective ends

		2. Visualization makes the coherent behaviour clearly visible 

5. Cues are needed in social interaction 

	1. Social coordination and coooperation 

	2. Social Norms for Coordination 


6. How to design online systems that support social intelligence? 

	Social Proxies
		• A shared visualization of people and their activities
		• Shows online interactions with minimum amount of graphical features
		• Should be visible to all members of the system

7. Visualization Design Principles

	1. Every one sees the same thing; No customization 

		Shared knowledge

		Everyone is held socially accountable for their actions

		Leads to useful socail phenomena 

	2. Portray action, not interpretation 

		System can be used in unexpected way

		minimizing designer's interpretation, encourage user creativities

		Users understand the system better

	3. Social Visualization should allow deception 骗局

	4. Support micro/macro reading

	5. Ambiguity is useful, suggest rather than inform

	6. User a third-person point of view




























